in brasilia 16 de abril thursday 19 hours good night everyone here my side
keep in mind our £ imtep elisângela to my right a person
the already known successful people but perhaps not familiar with the you who
ours with little owl doctor nelson tais da healthcare time-consuming
today we are going to introduce you are going to say something today I had a conversation
almost half an hour the doctor doctor a guetta where we talked a lot about
oh yeah, let the health ministry thank you enough for your work
point that didn’t really subscribe to the president’s idea was exactly the
concern also a collection of jobs in brazil
a moment so as always i said with two is a patient with two
serious problems here is the virus and the unemployment issue his line with the
doctor I respect her focused almost exclusively on the question of life
know what's very important logically most important any
something else but we know that the side effect of a very strict quarantine
and doing what the most humble people and people can see
your job or your livelihood in the case of informality could cause a problem
very serious and of course brazil can reach a point
of economy to be able to recover yet another adjusted economy we know that the
consequences also lead to doctor will talk in a little while is there is the
concern about the virus we never deny from there to the other hand we do not know that
we must see to it that jobs do not continue to be destroyed by part of
of a policy that in my understanding may not be in yours with a
a little bit too strict for example it was neither one nor two is almost
an acquaintance the 10 prisons of people to in public square
men women, right, like on the beach in a bikini, being arrested by the police for
municipal guard even by the military police carrying out orders from the mayor of the
governor is already going on my part and would determine him imprisonment of whoever
unless that person was, you know, a carrier of the disease
then yes you have protection in the law outside that, then there are not only arbitrary arrests that
hurt not to understand and the basic right guaranteed in the song
don't let him come as well as your freedom you have to go the person only
you can lose your freedom due to a projection, you know, because of a crime committed in the act
crime that was not of these people, because there was no evidence that the
carrier of the virus so pass the word quickly here we will exchange
an idea about all his work what will be redirected is going to be
it will not be a stick horse that we are going to give this one
on this issue but we understand that it actively with a lot of
responsibility Brazil has to go back to work
now decision and will depart much more from governor and
mayor than that was the decision of the federal supreme court was calling
unanimously is the light of another and the panel is only a challenge we have already
we have known since the time of the transition and now only accepted disappearance as her health
knowing that you are not in a normal situation as if you had assumed and January
last year is now the ministry itself that has to do with the lives of people with
health and and also aggravated by one by a pandemic drop quite safe
the era of what you will face ahead what is your opinion of what is
costing brazil you can collaborate so that brazil not only love
there are jobs, this is secondary, that's it, but you can't leave it, I'll forget it
there is no way to do what people are no longer afraid to put in the virus
if you bring the certain tranquility knowing that the virus can in some cases
right people according to age according to diseases and even take
oil my place I want to thank the present to
opportunity to be here in the group helping to treat this serious problem
for me an honor to be able to help the country help to see is
and I see it in a way I’ve already commented several times I see it from
a different way, right? I think we moved towards a separation between
health and economy because here how do I see this is this as a whole understand the
role of the health ministry has to be to bring health to people can
look like [ __ ] I'm talking about but treating people is not the same as taking
health provision health is a combination of many things it is a combination o
that he calls the camille social determinants of health you be careful and
health you will have economic stability you can have education for
when you worry about bringing health and well-being to society you work
health care but you have to work on several other things among
they stability the economic part and education for example one thing
and when you have a country that grows economically it drags with it the
growth of health education and the possibility to invest in something like
infrastructure like sanitation this separation she is she is a is a
separation and real in fact because everything will influence the life span in
quality of life and the well-being of society when I when I imagine
taking care of the health of the people that we sometimes commit is not taking care of the disease
just be careful this has to give both health and disease but it is a combination
of many things and we will be there and it is very important for you to work more
than the ministry is not only the ministry of health that will bring health
with the society the other ministries will participate in this is also important
this integration this alignment when you have is the things that depend on more
a ministry that sweats everything in an ad way
and combined because everything that is done isolated everything that is done repeated everything
that is fragmented ends up leading to inefficiency so when you have the
resource we are a rich country i'm with how many months of course you
have more efficient you have to have for you to take care of your health you will discuss
health care and other things too so when when I discuss
job when i listen to economics i think about the person i'm not thinking about this
looking at health I'm thinking about people in society and then you will
have if you take it tighten the most humble part there is a person who loses a
a job he will have less money to run his life to run the
their children and it's hard for you sometimes not to be able to give a damn about your family
we know how difficult it is for a
and the father a mother who supports a family both with my strength here is to bring
this view that I would say broad from that of health generation to a society
including health care and specifically assessing the impact of each thing
that happens in society whether in health or in the economy in the final result
that the ability to care for people and help people to be healthy and
well-being a simple example you have a decrease in economic activity and
you have - diagnostic services for example you may have a smaller number
cancer diagnoses you may have less resources to treat the
people and you will be able to have difficulty if you have financial difficulty if
there will be something cardiovascular part if the person stays there in
my emergency because she doesn’t have access because she’s scared it can
increase cardiovascular mortality probably those numbers all of them
have to pick up on the detail you have to be a line of work where you go
understand a detail this information that if
relate to what causes the problem related to care for the economy
job but the second one has to be worked in a way without being combined
and the problem is when you start to separate one thing from the other you start to
bringing competition is something that should be collaboration
is because even when you make some decisions you have to follow that
decision that is that stays here it looks like it will happen exactly as you
normally imagined you can never get it right you get it right
in a part you always have to make adjustments to life this is what you take are
evaluate and revert relation to vale review this ability you can see quickly
have information and take new policies and actions that will optimize the
health and well-being of society that will make it possible for us to really achieve
improve the level of the individual of the people so that's the
like this as well as I see how to take not only the ministry of health but
a team that works for health that goes beyond the ministry of health and I
I really hope to be able to deliver this [Music]
for the president's society and for the product is let's say a little something, right
because I was criticized a lot as if I had been exclusively concerned with
an airport economy is functioning you have no way to take an organ to
be transported and you brought the person who cannot help quickly
A person who needs urgent medical care is not
everything interconnected ok we know the responsibility
and then with the gym in front of me, it’s on my back and that of the Minister of
health we know that and we are not going to take the measures that have to be taken with a lot of
responsibility with a lot of tranquility that take advantage of increase here greet
here the young pan radio that was lying live a hug there augusto
pains to zé maria two people that a much older right some flowers always
firm in their positions this is very good that I got the excellent itself
exceptional and the zé maria with a little younger that is in the same smooth as the
some punctures of some are something else right I remember here his story is a doctor
in the pacific war is the soldier was injured episode of the transfusion that did not
had continued until they started to apply coconut water for sale in
and then in life, this discussion, of course, here can work, right, because I speak
that can work we don't have the proof is it can be in a two
years reach the scientific conclusion when it has not yet had validity
none was was psychological but we can also come to the conclusion that it was
Picasso and what I see in Brazil for many months applying the glue here on top of
beads is a medicine that has been widely used to fight malaria
sad and the light sold widely and special pharmacy in the northern region
when people with malaria and gelaf are having it, right?
has to help the verification of the front now that old story a person
snake practice and you don't know if that serum will save you not what
is does it let the person die or apply the soil that can work this is what
happens is an imposition my same decision to
whoever it is is something that can be effective and we didn't understand i'm not a doctor
but my understanding is to ask now that I’m doing business here, you can
apply water with obviously the doctor's prescription answered how does
I see the drugs they sent as proof of this book
you create some criteria for use but you make it available for
those people and that you believe the benefit can be greater than the
harm which is a function so this is not only true of course here at praia da
joaquina for other drugs being created
this is what is important for us to bring today is the fastest way
possible to understand this because when you don't have an accurate information this
doubt opens the space for you to use the medicine even if you don’t have
a certainty because what ends up happening that you have some
indications that it works and others asks you some questions about
on the effectiveness and toxicity this balance is up to you
make it available when you think it might be working here in situations today
as it is a more critical situation the person is more likely to die here
can be use and you see people using it actually when you have a lot of
uncertainty and fear will drive that too then
be it and you put it in the doctor's hand you today I already put the
doctor has aa he will make that choice he will take responsibility
but I think that our role today is to make sure that this solution is
faster based on the most accurate and reliable data from studies
with several studies here and I believe that this will see a space
see her for fun because you will need to wait this long you talked
it will come faster another ring just found it gave your opinion take a
message for the Brazilian of tranquility will be cautious is also
something that and everyone says almost unanimously right
that sixty percent of Brazilians have already been or will be infected and from
of that moment and here we can see from saying that
we are free of the virus in view of this large percentage of people and having
antibodies is a message is to take care of the elderly who have as their
right skill and other people also take due care but not
need to panic if it becomes contaminated, you know how I think
that we know that young people usually have less behavior
Aggressive people may be more asymptomatic although you now have an
25 right people eating by the doctor not elderly but it is
is what we have to pay attention to is as follows I am looking at the number of
people who today in Brazil had the diagnosis are blessed that you
multiply by giving this and this population today does not give way for
percent of the conversation and if you think that this can
represent in any way and related to have fifty sixty per
percent of having already had contact with the virus is already somehow the viewer and very
used on the continent may have died this distance is very large what
worries today is the following for you to discuss the fact that you can have the
second in the third wave this really far away people today is very low and you
imagine according to the scientific guidelines question of growing a lot
higher and today you already have a hard time not being economic but social
when we would do it economically, think of money but it’s the skill it’s the
possibility lets us interact and we have a normal life so you can get out
from your home talking to meeting the people you care about with your friends and
other places this goes beyond employment this goes in relation to everyday life
of people so this is us and yours was now we have to have a focus
very high in quality what is the prevalence of
the woman incidence prevalence of this disease be it of the infected or of the
healed the going so data that they died when you combine that data on
it will be much easier for us to see what happens when designing policies
at this point we will probably not be able to be
completely wrong but we are going to have a situation in which we hardly
will arrive at that number of theoretically would give an immunity that a
society and we will have to discuss how the life of the people will be
people learn to discuss I talked about life's discussion tell you about you
need employment economics got a little something can give a little connotation
marked but here i'm talking about how you are people's lives and then you
everything is related to isolation and job detachment everything helps me from
government the hour and what is left said the following collected the data see the
behavior see what's happening to people calmly
automations day and this we will have to walk
in this direction and we will have to have the comfort of understanding that each
day we will have walked again that will help us to understand better and to take
decisions for tomorrow I thought well I also thank the channel but Brazil
28 thousand of us live with 95 thousand of the gazeta radio Jovem Pan also
something else is good okay guys one day quite tiring for all of us
it is not easy to make decisions but the evaluation time
good and it's military jargon right worse than a bad decision is an indecision so
we know we can make mistakes when I said here can make mistakes but we will
seek to do the best for Brazil the law that we won win this one soon
this stage is not yet known if the number of deaths in Brazil will increase
but it is a reality, we have to face this one, we ask for a special
attention to the families in brazil who take your grandpa my mom is being taken care of by
my brothers there in the riverside vase a very special treatment that people
yes if you came to buy the viruses do not have difficulties they may need
medical care, which is very complex, so it treats sometimes the
people, if possible, isolated people who took them home in a corner and the
it was okay, very good, okay, and this pandemic will overcome this some
countries already practically see third a lot of pain a lot of sacrifice hobby ok
we will win this too and reduce whatever it is we don't want to lose a decision
ours decrease as much as possible this number of eggs but peace tranquility
and this will pass God is with us here in Brazil I believe in men and women
who are by our side in the most varied special ministries now that
has mobile weaknesses our ministry of health thank you very much to all and even the
next Thursday would be straightforward